.\" Copyright (c) 2015 Baptiste Daroussin <bapt@FreeBSD.org>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd October 31, 2021
.Dt IDENT 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ident
.Nd "identify RCS keyword strings in files"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl q
.Op Fl -debug
.Op Fl -help|-?
.Op Fl V|--version
.Op Fl -
.Op Ar
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility searches for all instances of the pattern
.Sq $keyword: text $
in
.Ar file (s).
.Pp
.Em keyword
must only be composed of alphanumeric values in the C locale, followed by
.Sq \&:
and a space.
.Pp
If no arguments are passed, then
.Nm
parses the standard input.
.Pp
The pattern normally requires a colon and a space immediately after the keyword and a space immediately before the terminating $,
but for Subversion 1.2 (and later) compatibility,
ident will also recognize the pattern
.Sq $keyword:: text $
(i.e., two colons and a space) and the pattern
.Sq $keyword:: text #$
(likewise, with a hash before the terminating $).
These are the fixed-width keyword syntax.
.Pp
To summarize, the three recognized patterns are:
.Bl -bullet
.It
$keyword: text $ 
.It
$keyword:: text $ 
.It
$keyword:: text #$
.El
.Ss OPTIONS
These options are supported:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl q
Quiet mode: suppress warnings if no pattern found
.It Fl -debug
Enable debug mode
.Pp
.It Fl -help|-?
Print usage and this help message and exit
.Pp
.It Fl V|--version
Print version and exit
.Pp
.It Fl -
Options processing terminator
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The
.Ev IDENT_DEBUG
environment variable can be set to any value to enable debug mode.
.Pp
The
.Ev FLAVOUR
or
.Ev IDENT_FLAVOUR
environment variables can be set to one of the following values,
to implement only the corresponding options and behaviours.
.Bl -bullet
.It
bsd | bsd:freebsd : FreeBSD ident(1)
.It
gnu | gnu:linux | linux : GNU/Linux ident(1)
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std ident
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr what 1 ,
.Xr strings 1
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
utility is not a standard UNIX command, though a usual one on Unix-like systems.
.Pp
This re-implementation tries to follow the PEP 8 style guide for Python code.
.Sh PORTABILITY
Tested OK under Windows.
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
command appeared with the Revision Control System (RCS) in 1982,
and was written by
.An Walter F. Tichy
at Purdue University.
RCS is now maintained by the GNU Project.
.Pp
This re-implementation was made for the
.Lk https://github.com/HubTou/PNU PNU project
.Sh LICENSE
It is available under the 3-clause BSD license.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Hubert Tournier
.Pp
This manual page is based on the one written for
.Fx
by
.An Baptiste Daroussin Aq Mt bapt@FreeBSD.org .
.Sh CAVEATS
In the original RCS
.Nm
command, option
.Fl V
printed RCS version number.
Our re-implementation prints its own version.
